# Home-Automation-using-AR
The proposed work integrates mobile AR with IoT, to control household appliances, with the help of wi-fi or internet. Virtual floating buttons are set over a target image using Software Applications like Unity and Vuforia engine. The function of Appliance Module is to act as a communication hub between the Software Application and the appliances. 
This section describes the basic function of the system, system components, system ﬂow, and a comprehensive explanation of each component, along with how they communicate. The majority of the processing is performed via the Smartphone App. This reduces the processing load of the microcontroller. By focusing on the user experience, and ease of use and accessibility, the smartphone application allows for a more streamlined method of operation. The use of an IoT-based wireless communication network gives scalability and ease of implementation for the system. The components are designed using the latest iteration of their respective hardware and software platforms, thus ensuring improved performance eﬃciency and provision of features, when compared to existing solutions.
       In this concept of IoT based smart home system, after making circuit connections and the program is uploaded to ESP32 which is a Wi-fi module. The wi-fi network connects the home appliances with the BLYNK server using the Auth token generated from the cloud server. Software applications used are Unity hub, in which Vuforia engine is added for linking the AR CAMERA with the target image. The code uploaded to esp32 is a basic Arduino UID code and in Unity the code uploaded is C# code. The BLYNK server created a DataStream where the created Virtual pin V0 can be controlled using BLYNK IoT mobile application as well. This system of Home Automation using Augmented Reality (HAAR) paves way not only to wireless but also touchless control over home appliances using virtual buttons in Augmented Reality. Virtual floating buttons are set over a target image using Software Applications like Unity and Vuforia engine. The electronic appliance can be controlled by using the BLYNK mobile app as well as using BLYNK cloud’s API’s [5]. The auth token from the virtual pin V1 allows the user to control the appliance when available in online. At the same t ime you can also control the appliance using AR virtual buttons visible in the target image using AR camera. The function of Appliance Module is to act as a communication hub between the Software application and the appliances. For appliances using Wi-fi signals it converts the commands into appropriate form and transmits them.
